#summary Hydra: A controller for reef aquaria.

= Introduction =

The Hydra project is an effort to create an Arduino-compatible controller for reef aquaria.

= Guidelines =

Hardware development strives to follow these guidelines:

  * Incorporate functionality desirable for controlling and monitoring a typical home reef aquarium
  * Allow for expanding the hardware and software to incorporate additional functionality
  * Keep the hardware "simple" enough that a novice electronics hobbyist would be comfortable with assembly (i.e. no small-pitch high pin count SMT parts).
  * Maintain shield compatibility with official Arduinos, i.e. the Duemilanove.
  * Preserve GPIO pins - use I2C or other busses where possible

= Included Functionality =

The current design of the Hydra includes hardware to support the following functions:

  * Monitoring pH through a stable amplifier circuit
  * Driving an LCD via I2C
  * Absolute timekeeping via an onboard RTC
  * Additional I/O, memory, and processing power via a second AVR acting as an I2C slave (Hence the "Hydra" name, implying multiple heads)
  * Ethernet connectivity, allowing for remote control and/or notification of alarm conditions

Simple I/O functionality - sensing float switches, reading temperatures, etc. - will be implemented via GPIO pins and/or 1-Wire or I2C slave devices separate from the main PCB. In addition, a relay module will be developed separately from the main PCB to control 120v AC devices.

= Project Status =

The current status of the project is very early development. We have prototyped much of the functionality via off-the-shelf Arduinos, breadboards, etc. The first round of PCBs have been ordered and "real" testing will begin soon. If you are interested in helping, please contact the project owner.